I have spent most of my
working life trading and creating strategies
for trading groups. At the beginning of my career, quant trading was dominated
by arbitrage strategies that today we would consider
quite slow and simplistic. Despite that, the strategies
were quite profitable. Markets have become much
faster and more efficient, and strategies have evolved
to identify and exploit opportunities that
are available for a few milliseconds
and then disappear. The strategies that you will create don't have to be perfect. Actually, perfect doesn't
exist in the trading world. They just need to be
as good or better than the ones that your
competitors will be using. First, we will discuss
the differences between trading and investing. We will also identify the main strategy categories
in the Quant Universe and then gain an
understanding of how each component fits
into a quant strategy. Lastly, we will point out
the strong points and weak points of typical
quant strategies. In this section, we will
explore the design and implementation of quantitative
strategies in trading. We will talk about
the different parts of the Quant Universe and then explore the main types of quantitative
trading strategies. First, let's talk about
trading versus investing. Financial sector
firms are usually designated as either
buy side or sell side. Buy side refers to firms whose primary business is
investing and advising. This group includes
asset managers such as private equity, mutual funds, life insurance companies,
pension funds, and quantitative trading
firms such as hedge funds. Sell side refers to
banks and broker dealers that sell investments
and services to asset managers and hedge funds and that also provide
market-making services. That means they act as
dealers in secondary markets. At investment firms, we find portfolio managers make
longer-term decisions about the strategic allocation
of assets and somewhat shorter-term decisions about the tactical allocations. Strategic allocation
decides how much to invest in each asset
category such as equities, bonds, real estate,
or commodities. Tactical allocation
chooses specific assets to buy or short
within each category. The most common investment
strategy is to buy and hold assets that had
been identified as undervalued based on
fundamental analysis. Portfolio managers'
gains and losses are measured relative to
a relevant benchmark, portfolio, or index which mirrors their strategic allocation
in their portfolio. This performance is measured net of any moves in the
benchmark or index. So they can only outperform
if their asset choices beat a passive portfolio
that mirrors the benchmark. Hedge funds on the other hand, we find traders, developers, and researchers all working together to identify and implement
quantitative strategies. Their goal is to generate a positive return that is independent of overall
moves in the market. This hedge return
is called Alpha. The term Alpha is also widely
used by portfolio managers to refer to their outperformance or return above a benchmark. This excess return seems similar to the Alpha
generated by hedge funds, but there's an
important difference. Portfolio manager
Alpha comes from long asset holdings that are
exposed to market, sector, and company risk as opposed to hedge fund Alpha which comes from a hedge strategy that has eliminated or at least attempted
to minimize these risks. This is one of the key benefits of investing in a hedge strategy, especially if you're
worried there'll be a sell off in the overall market. Portfolio managers use
fundamental analysis to rebalance the allocations
in their portfolios. Rebalancing includes changes
in the strategic allocation to give undervalued asset categories a heavier
weight in the portfolio. It can also include
tactical reallocation, where ideally you're
selling winning assets that have achieved their full
target value and replacing them with undervalued assets
that have the potential to help the portfolio achieve returns in excess
of its benchmark. At trading firms, traders have a much shorter-term
opportunistic focus. The time frame for their
investments ranges from a few months to
a few milliseconds. A millisecond end of this spectrum dominates
over all trading volume. Traders rarely use
fundamental analysis as a factor in their
decisions as they consider this information to
already be baked in to the market price and essentially worthless
for generating Alpha. Traders instead look constantly
for market behaviors and inefficiencies that will generate high-risk adjusted returns
on their trading capital. Although they trade
the same assets as portfolio managers, they generally ignore
fundamentals and focus on other sources
of mispricing. Buy-side quantitative
methods include regression, prediction models,
statistical arbitrage, and machine learning which we'll cover later in the course. Sell-side quantitative
methods are mostly execution strategies. These are designed to reduce
the market impact cost of large orders and also to capture spreads by providing liquidity
through market making. Keep in mind though that
buy-side firms also employ execution strategies when they execute their trading orders.