In this section, we will
explore the design and implementation of quant
trading strategies. Quant strategies are a
precise set of rules that generate orders and manage the risk of your
current position. Rules can be quite complex
and are a product of systematic statistical
analysis of an asset's historical price data. You can use this analysis to uncover hidden patterns
and behaviors in the market for a particular asset or group of assets
such as an index. Strategies range
from low-frequency, at least by trading
standards, to high-frequency. You must implement high-frequency
trading strategies with software and market
interfaces that can handle sub-millisecond order
creation and submission. Quant strategies
are also a type of forecasting method that
attempts to predict the future value of a stock or other instrument where
the direction of a price spread between
two instruments. These forecasts are based on an observed price response
to factors that you have identified as
statistically significant in predicting changes in
an instrument's price. Mean reversion strategies
depend on the stability or stationarity of an asset's price or spread relative
to another asset. When the price risk
spread gets too high, it becomes more likely
that it will decrease, and so revert to its long-term
mean or neutral value. When the price risk
spread gets too low, it becomes more likely
that it will increase, and again revert to its mean. Correlation is a
measure of how well two variables move
together over time. Correlation coefficients
range from negative one or perfect negative
correlation to zero, or no correlation to one which is perfect
positive correlation. Positive correlation means that the variables move in tandem in the same direction while
negative correlation means that they move in tandem but
in opposite directions. When you look for a
correlation in a price series, you normalize the prices so that each starts at 100 percent. The change in prices is then the cumulative return
on each asset. Notice how the returns in
this example track closely, and then diverge by
about 10 percent, and then by about 15 percent. These two assets are correlated, but the difference between
their means is not stable. Co-integration tasks
do not measure how well two variables
move together, but rather whether the difference between their means
remains constant. Often variables with
high correlation will also be co-integrated
and vice versa, but this isn't always the case. In contrast to correlation when you test for co-integration, use prices rather than returns since you're more
interested in the trend between the variable's means over time than in the individual
price movements. In momentum or
trend-following strategies, you're just buying assets that
had been past winners and, selling assets that
had been past losers. This is the opposite of a
mean reversion strategy where you sell winners
and buyback losers. Momentum strategies
has been particularly popular over the last five years, and they outperformed
the S&P 500 by a wide margin as you can
see from this chart, which compares the performance of the iShare momentum
ETF to the S&P. We will find possible
explanations for this outperformance in both the underreaction and overreaction of prices to
new market information. Underreaction means
it takes time for the market to fully
incorporate new information, and so the positive
or negative effect is spread out over a
longer time period. Overreaction means that
the market tends to feed on its own positive
or negative reaction. The market over rewards companies
that release good news, and over punishes those
that release bad news. You can also argue that it is inherently riskier
to continue buying stocks after up-moves or
selling them after down-moves. So momentum investors should get an extra return for
taking this risk. This argument, however,
is undercut by the fact that iShares Momentum ETF has a three-year beta of 0.91
versus 1.0 for the S&P 500. It is weakly supported however by the volatility of the momentum ETF being 12.5 percent versus
12.1 percent for the S&P. I think that the last
argument is the strongest. Investors believe that
momentum strategies will outperform the market, will cause them to
bid up the prices of momentum stocks creating a
positive reinforcement cycle. Many traders believe
that momentum stocks and also quality
stocks are overvalued, and that this positive
reinforcement cycle will unwind in a sharp sell-off of the stocks favored
by these strategies. Market micro-structure
is a combination of the physical trading
infrastructure used by a trading platform
and its participants, the platform's trading rules, and the behaviors, and trading patterns of its participants. The strategies used and abused
by high-frequency traders had been described extensively in the media and books
such as Flash Boys. High-frequency traders
who attempt to capture an arbitrage profit by
taking advantage of flaws and anomalies in this infrastructure that exists for a few milliseconds or less. They also seek to identify
and exploit patterns in the trading behavior of their major competitors
in each market. These patterns are often identified using
game theory models. Equally important
is their ability to detect and profit
from the execution of large orders that have
been broken up and hidden using an order
execution strategy. Let's say a firm
wants to purchase an unusually large
quantity of stock. Now use an execution
strategy that enters the trades in a
way that is supposed to break up and hide the order but which unintentionally
signals search strategy. Sophisticated traders
have their own algorithms which are able to detect
these stealth orders. They're able to use
this information to jump in front of
the large orders, and profit by driving
prices up ahead of a buy order or down
ahead of a sell order. Spoofing is where traders
attempt to mislead other traders by submitting
orders to the market, order book that they
don't intend to execute. Say a trading group needs to sell a stock and wants to
get a better price. They can enter temporary
large-sized buy orders below the current market
bid to encourage other bidders to pay higher
prices for the stock.