This section, we will identify
some of the key strengths and weaknesses of quantitative strategies. Markets are often driven as much
by emotions as by fundamentals. While it is sometimes important
to factor in market sentiment, it is usually not a good idea to let your
own emotions color your trading decisions. In my experience, trader sentiment
swing wildly between greed and fear, blinding them to what is
really going on in the market. Greed and its enabler egomania often cause
a trader to refuse to take profits and rides huge winners all
the way down to huge losses. Fear and its enabler self-doubt often
cause traders to liquidate positions due to short-term losses that would
have eventually turned into big winners. Once a strategy is agreed and the rules
are in place to control changes to that strategy is more likely that the careful
reasoning used to construct the strategy will prevail over the short-term
desires to tweak or modify it. This makes risk management clear and
also keeps the emotion out. Correctly formulated strategies are always
optimal from a mathematical perspective. This optimality may prove illusory, but it still represents the collective
wisdom of a strategy as developers and is a big improvement over
the strategies based on sentiment. Quant trading despite being rules-based,
emotion free, mathematically optimal
is still quite risky. Small firms blow up all the time and
see even some of the biggest firms like Knight Capital have flamed out
in less than an hour of trading. Knight was the largest trader in
US equities with a market share of around 17% on both the New York
Stock Exchange and the NASDAQ. Knight's Electronic Trading Group
managed an average daily volume of 3.3 billion trades trading
over 21 billion daily and yet due to a computer glitch,
Knight accidentally bought 7 billion dollars of equities in 45 minutes with no
customer orders or funds to pay for them. They tried to cancel the orders but
failed and was forced to sell the stocks
at a $478 million loss. With this loss of trading capital,
it had to accept a capital infusion from a rival firm who eventually
ended up taking it over. Quant trading already dominates
the market, it's extremely competitive. That said, it is the only area of trading
that is growing and anyone who wants to develop or trade strategies
should invest some of their time and effort on their coding and
statistical skills. Quant strategies are only optimal within
the context of their assumptions, made during their construction. This is a weakness, but it is also
true of any strategy that attempts to predict a random variable
such as equity prices. Profits are never certain
in a risky strategy. If you want a guaranteed return,
you should be a Buy and Hold investor in government bonds, most
of which yielded negative real return. Lastly, markets are always changing,
uptrending markets and assets suddenly reverse to downtrend which
can cause correlations to reverse and volatility to spike upward. Overall though, the rapid expansion
of quantitative trading shows that the opportunities outweigh the challenges. I hope as we work our way through this
course, you will gain a functional understanding of the real world
applications of Quant trading techniques. And also how machine learning and AI can
help you leverage your development efforts and make your strategies more
effective and profitable.