Various forms of
pure arbitrage and statistical arbitrage
are the basis for almost all quant
trading strategies. When I created this as part of a bank's proprietary group, our strategies were
based on arbitrage and volatility levels between
different currencies and interest rate pairs. We had definite opinions
about the level and term structure on
volatility in each market, but we're completely
agnostic about the direction of exchange
rates and interest rates. In this section, we'll take a look at the difference between an exchange arbitrage and
a statistical arbitrage. We'll also look at
some of the challenges traders face in
managing Stat Arb risk. We will cover each of
the steps required to execute exchange or
statistical arbitrage. We will then look at how to
structure an index arbitrage, and identify the infrastructure
the strategy needs. Last, we will take
a critical look at the opportunities and challenges that are
an integral part of Stat Arb strategies. Exchange arbitrage is a form of riskless or pure arbitrage in
which the same asset trades on two exchanges with
the asking price on one exchange overlapping with the bid price on
another exchange. Normally, the bid price is
lower than the ask price. In the example you see here, the asking price on Nasdaq is 100 and the bid on
NYSE is 100.10 cents, or an Arb profit of
0.10 cents per share. The opportunity to
make this type of riskless profit is
becomes scarcer as links between exchanges and alternative trading
networks gets faster, which reduces the
time window in which arbitrage opportunities
like these are available. Also, the increase in
high-frequency trading firms specialized in low
latency strategies or very fast order
execution strategies has reduced the profits available from this
type of arbitrage. In carry arbitrage,
the acquisition and delivery of an asset are
agreed at the same time, but the final delivery of the asset happens
at a later date. Carry is the cost of holding
and storing an asset, net of any income that
the asset pays you. Unlike bonds and stocks, gold only pays a yield
if it is leased out, and the rate for a
one-year lease on gold is only about 10 basis
points right now. The difference between
the spot price and the future delivery price is the compensation of
the carry trader receives to offset
their costs which are funding, storage, and insurance. In the example shown, the total carry is $30 or about two percent
of the asset's price. This would be less by 10 basis points if you're
leasing the gold out. Stat Arb is the most common
type of risk Arb strategy and mean reversion is a
more formal way of saying buy low, sell high. In this example, you
want to trade a stock whose average price has been 100. The issuer is a
mature company with limited growth opportunities and you assume the share price
will be more or less stable, or more formally, you can model it as a stationary process. This is an unusual assumption as most stocks are
assumed to have an upward price script due to either profit growth
or retaining earnings. The variation of
the stock has been five percent over the
previous 100 days. So you expect it to vary by the same amount in the future. You create trading rules
so that when the stock increases to five
percent above its mean, you sell or short it. When it falls to five percent
below its mean, you buy it. It seems pretty easy, doesn't it? Using these rules, you could
earn a total profit of 20 based on the buy and sell
points marked on the graph. So far so good. But what happens is volatility
is greater than expected. What happens if you short at 105 and then the
price goes to 110? You sell more stock at 110 or
do you lock in your loss by covering the short at
110? Similar problem. If you buy the stock for 95 and then the
price drops to 90, giving you a five percent loss. Do you buy more at 90 or do you lock in your loss
by selling it 90? This is the unavoidable challenge
of Stat Arb strategies. If you set your buy
and sell levels too close to the current market, you will likely
make a transaction, but you're going to
have a low level of confidence that it will
end up being profitable. If you set your buy
and sell levels too far from the current price, you're less likely
to take a loss, but it's also less likely that the market is going to
reach those levels. So you may never make a trade. Designing a profitable strategy means finding the balance between these extremes and also setting stop-loss orders to preserve
your trading capital. Another common Arb
strategy is pairs trading, where you identified
two stocks with similar characteristics and go long one and short the other. With this example, we
assume the stocks are trading at the same
price and you were able to finance your purchase of stock A with the proceeds
from shorting stock B. In real life, you
would have to borrow stock B and you'd have to post part of the
proceeds as collateral, but we're just going to
assume you're able to finance the purchase
completely with stock B. The main benefit of
this strategy is that since A and B trade
in the same market, belong to the same sector
of the same industry, you are hedging the
industry and sector risks. So any return that you
get will be based only on the strength of the choice you make of which stocks to pair. Your decision about which stock
to buy and which stock to sell could be based on either a fundamental
evaluation analysis, or on relative
historical returns, or correlations, or some
combination of all three. You might determine that the fundamental value of A is $10 more than B despite them
having the same market price. Or you might have observed
that B is outperformed A by 10 percent historically,
and going forward, you expect the price
of A to catch up to B because you expect their returns to be the
same in the long-term. So you buy A for 100 and you
sell B for the same price. You are now long the
spread between A and B. Almost immediately, A
share price increases to 110 while B stays at 100. You sell A and buy B back
for a quick $10 profit, and then wait for A and B
to be mispriced again which happens when A and
B both fall to 95, and you get longer
spread again by buying A and shorting B. This time, A's price drifts
and ends up back at 95. Meanwhile, B has rallied to 105 causing you to lose
$10 on your short. If you panic and issue a stop-loss order to
sell A and buyback B, you will lock in a loss of $10. If instead you decide
to write out the trade, you will see your
loss increase to $15 when A stays at 95
and B rallies to 110. It would be hard not to cover the trade now as you've lost 15 percent of your capital and you will get pressure
from your funders. If you're able to talk them into letting you
keep the trade on, your 15 loss eventually
transforms into an unrealized seven
dollar profit when A rallies to 107
and B falls to 100. By the end of the period, stock A is trading at 83 and
stock B at 103 and you have an unrealized loss
of $20 on the trade and an overall loss
of $10 for the year. Your funders are not happy and you are wishing you
issue that stop-loss order or even better had
taken that unrealized profit of seven dollars and
ended the year up 17. Correlations between
stock pairs are notoriously unstable and can move from positive to negative, and then back again depending on what time
period you're looking at. This makes pair trading a fairly risky
proposition even though it's considered fully
hedge except for the company or spread risk. Other trade such as
pairs of bonds with different maturities
and commodities paired with their byproducts have
more stable correlations and are potentially better
candidates for pairs trading, which is essentially just trading a spread between the price
of two related assets.