Next, we will look at some
of the practical issues and opportunities that
Stat Arb traders face. Stat Arb is very competitive and it's hard for new
entrants to compete in areas like index arbitrage
especially in major markets. Fortunately, there are
lots of opportunities in smaller markets and less liquid
stocks and other assets. These markets are less efficient, and so they offer more
opportunities to trade profitably but on
a smaller scale. Stat Arb profits
are eaten away by a range of costs
including trading, clearing, and exchange fees. These are especially heavy
for high-frequency traders. There are also
risk-based charges which factor in the cost of
trading capital being tied up in collateral and margin for derivatives
positions in short sales. Added to this are the cost to borrow assets for short sales, especially when there's
very high demand and limited supply as is the case when several hedge
funds decide to short the same stock of a
closely held company. Think Beyond Meat or Lyft. This is referred to as the
asset being on special, where the stock lender charges you as much as 60 percent
to borrow the stock. This means you put
up collateral of $100 and receive $40 back
at the end of the year. Obviously, this is not a good strategy for
more than a few weeks. Lastly, there's a market
impact cost of trading. Lower frequency arbitrators
usually sell at the bid price and they
buy at the ask price. So they lose about half of that bid-ask spread on
each transaction. This is paying for liquidity
or being a liquidity taker rather than a liquidity provider such as a
market-making firm. Arb trading firms
consume lots of data. Initially, a firm must
purchase and cleanse historical data that it will use as the input to
models and strategies. Market feeds vary in
price depending on the level of detail
needed by the firm. Daily open, high-low, and closed data is essentially free. High frequency data
is more costly, but is essential for most
quantitative strategies. High-frequency traders also need to have full visibility into each asset's order
book and tick by tick data on the timing
and size of transactions. This type of feed can
be quite expensive, especially if a firm trades in several markets
at the same time. Remember my earlier
observation that the most promising areas
for traders were smaller, less liquid stocks and markets? This comes with a big caveat. In order to profit
from these stocks, you need to actually
be able to trade them. The reality is that
liquidity is heavily concentrated in the
largest cap stocks in the largest markets. This is part of why
these markets offer fewer mispricings and
other inefficiencies. When you design a
trading strategy, you need to take into account how much trading
actually takes place in the stock and what size of bid-ask spreads you will face
if you decide to transact. These hurdles can make an
otherwise profitable strategy. You're unexecutable
or unprofitable. Another challenge
is it's sometimes hard to borrow certain stocks. Recall our discussion of
stocks being on special. In this case, you may
not be able to find a stock lender when you
want to shorten them. Also trading in stock
may be halted due to pending news or simply because
the market is not open. This can cause you
to lose a lot of potential profit from a strategy. In our earlier example of
spread trading of pair stocks, we had to wait a long time before the spread reached a level
where we can sell it, and then another
long time before it reached a level where we
can buy it back again. During these waiting periods, correlations can change
dramatically due to new information or
events in the market. The longer your time frame, the more sensitive your
trade is to these risks. This type of risk is
generally not an issue for high-frequency traders who focus on ultra-short time frames. Instead, they have to
worry about covering high trading costs with frequent but usually
small profits. One of the most
important things you need to keep in
mind as you develop strategies is that when you trade a correlation or a spread, you can also change the
market you're trading in. Prices will change
immediately and other traders may withdraw liquidity if they
sense a spread is being traded more heavily
in one direction. They may also be able to figure out your strategy even
if your trades are anonymous by noticing changes in price patterns in a
asymmetries in the order book. Ultimately, if your trades are large enough or
persistent enough, they will eventually eliminate the profitability of the
correlation or inefficiency. This is especially true when other terms start trading
the same strategy.