In this video, we will
explore what forecasting is and how to understand some of the terms used in forecasting. Finally, we will look
at how to select the right model for a given dataset and the type of problem we are asked to solve. Everyday at all levels of
the financial industry, decisions are made about what is likely to
happen in the future. Businesses take
action today based on yesterday's data and
tomorrow's expectations. You can call them expectations, predictions,
or projections. It all means one
thing: forecasting. We will try to understand
terminology and how to choose the right model
for our forecasting needs. Finally, we will look
at how we can use BigQuery's latest edition machine learning to make forecast. Forecasting is a technique used by businesses for predicting the future based on
past information. The forecast can be in terms of either dollars such as revenue or some physical volume such as stock returns or absolute prices. Predicting, projecting,
or estimating some future volume or financial situation
is very critical, and traders use it all the time without realizing that they
are performing a forecast. A trader does not buy
a stock, for example, without having some expectation of where it'll be tomorrow, or next week, or next year. Wikipedia says that
forecasting is the process of making
predictions of the future based on past and
present data and most commonly by
analyzing trends. There are two basic ways
to make a forecast: one is a qualitative and
the other is quantitative. A qualitative forecast
would involve at least two usually
multiple rounds of experts answering questions and giving justifications
for their answers, providing the opportunity within grounds for changes
and/or revisions. Qualitative forecasting
techniques are subjective based on the opinion and judgment
of consumers and experts. They are appropriate when
past data are not available. They're usually applied to intermediate or
long-range decisions. Examples of qualitative
forecasting methods are informed opinion
and judgment, market research, and
historical life cycle analogy. On the other hand, quantitative forecasting
models are used to forecast future data as
a function of past data. They are appropriate to use when past numerical data is
available and when it is reasonable to assume that some of the patterns in the data are expected to continue
into the future. These methods are usually applied to short or intermediate
range decisions. On the other hand, a
quantitative forecast models the relationship between two or more explanatory variable and
a response variable. This can be of two kinds:
causal and time series. In causal models
such as regression, we model with a single
explanatory variable or a more complex model
with multiple variables. You can think of it as fitting a linear equation
to observe data or an exponential function in multidimensional space
to multiple data points. Time series methods, however, use a function of last period's actual value as
a forecast for the future. You can think of this as technical trading to
use trading terms. That is, you're using past stock prices to predict
future stock prices. In one case, we use a simple moving average model
which uses an average of a specified number of the
most recent observations with each observation receiving the same emphasis or weight. A weighted moving average model on the other hand
uses an average of a specified number of the
most recent observations with each observation receiving a different emphasis or weight. There are several variations
to using past data. But what we must understand is that in
time series models, we use past prices to forecast future prices or past volume
to forecast future volume. Nothing else. To summarize, in both regression and
time series forecast, we need to collect data, organize it, create a model, experiment a lot with
it like tweaking it, and finally produce results
that we think are acceptable. However, there is a
crucial difference. In regression, we use
explanatory variables to explain the response which means to predict that variable. In time series forecast, however, or simply called forecasting, we use past data to
predict future data. There is no other variable,
explanatory or otherwise. Hope this distinction is clear. Now, let's look at the
way in which we will use both methods to predict
stock prices in the future.