In this section, we will look at what
terms are used in forecasting and what they mean. Here is a quick scenario where we will
be predicting customer lifetime value with the machine learning model. Let's predict the lifetime value of
an e-commerce customer using regression. Our goal is to better target high-value
customers to our e-commerce site throughout the customer lifecycle with
special promotions and incentives. After exploring the data, we can provide
a number of useful fields to the model, like the number of different days
a visitor has been to our website. How many lifetime page views,
how many total visits, what is the average time on site,
the total revenue brought in, and the count of e-commerce
transactions on our site. Now, all that is shown here is basic
analytics to get a sense of the data, but you could feed this historical lifetime
value data and use that to predict and power which customers are high-value
customers to help you focus and target them for promotions and incentives. But before we get too deep
building models in BigQuery, we first need to define our data terms
in the language that data scientists and other machine learning professionals use. Taking the e-commerce example
we had in the previous lesson, a record or a row is called an instance or
an observation. In the screenshot you see here,
we have eight instances. A label is the correct answer and will be
what you are looking to train the model on with your existing data and
predicting with your model on future data. Here the label is Lifetime Revenue, which
is a number we will be trying to predict. Labels could also be things like binary
values like high value customer or not as shown here. Knowing what you're trying to
predict a class, a number, etc will greatly influence the type
of model you will use later. Those columns are called features. We have a whole module dedicated to
creating machine learning data sets in BigQuery which touches on the critical
topic of feature engineering, which is exploring, cleaning, and pre-processing your data before you input
it into your machine learning model. This is often the hardest
part of any ML project and why it's great you already enjoy
working with data as analysts. Now, say some new data comes in
that you don't have a label for, we now have a data set of labeled examples
and a data set with some unknowns. Well, this is the fun part,
we can draw inference or predict those values with a model. Again, a machine learning model will build
a recipe for determining those output values in this case classifying
whether that customer is high value or not based on your labeled training data,
which is the blue box shown here. Next up, you'll learn how to code
these models yourself with just SQL. Your model will learn the way to give each
feature as you can see on the screen. Some features such as distinct
days visited have more weight than average session quality. After the model is trained you can see
the relative importance of each field. A label is the correct answer and will be
what you are looking to train the model on with your existing data and
predict with your model and future data. Here the label is Lifetime Revenue, which
is a number we will be trying to predict. Now, let's say you have to predict future
values of lifetime value for a customer. We now will use past values of LTV for
that customer to predict future value. Now say some new data comes in
that you don't have a label for, we now have a data set of labeled
examples and a data set with unknowns.