In this section, we are
going to see how to select the right model for a forecasting job given
the data and the problem. We will revisit
machine learning in greater depth in each of
the modules in this course. For now, just remember
that we wanted to use a computer using
examples, not put rules. Any business application
where you have those long switch or case
statements or if-then-else logic manually coded
and you have a history of good labeled data is a possible application
for machine learning. So if you have a structured
dataset that you think is a good use case
for machine learning, the next step is to find a model type that is
appropriate for your use case. Out of all the models out there, what's a good place for you to start for simple prototyping? Here's a decision tree
to help guide us. We'll walk through
each of the branches. The first question is: What kind of activity
you're engaging in? Is there a right
answer or grant to that exists in your
historical data that you want to model? You'll see later in BigQuery
ML that you can just specify model type equal linear regression and BigQuery
handles the rest for you. What didn't you see here
that you may have heard of? There are many different
types of models out there that you may not
see on this chart. More complex models like
deep neural networks, decision trees, random forests are also available for modeling. You'll even build a
custom model using neural architecture
search to build a deep neural network
later in this course without using any
code with AutoML. It's my recommendation
that even if you know how to build advanced
models that you start with simpler ones first because they often train
faster and give you an indication of whether or not ML is a viable solution
for your problem. Here's a quick quiz to test your knowledge
of different models to use different problems
in your business. Let's say you want to predict the e-commerce sales figures
for the next quarter. Which one of the
following will you use? One, forecasting; two,
classification; three, recommendation; four,
unsupervised learning; or five, all of the above. Can you tell? The
correct answer is one, the forecasting method using a linear regression or
other regression models. Now, let's look at
another question. What model would you use if
your problem was to predict whether a user will buy
or not during a visit? The choices are: one, forecasting; two,
classification; three, recommendations; four,
unsupervised learning; and finally five,
all of the above. What would your choice be? The correct answer is two, classification since we are interested in finding
the two categories or classes in which
the response will fall under to buy or not to buy. In addition, you
might want to use a model such as logistic
regression which, even though it has the word
regression in its name, is actually a
classification algorithm. I hope this was helpful.